README.md, before:

# CL-REPL - Common Lisp REPL for Roswell

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/koji-kojiro/cl-repl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/koji-kojiro/cl-repl)
[![MIT License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/koji-kojiro/cl-repl/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/koji-kojiro/cl-repl.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/koji-kojiro/cl-repl/releases)
[![Quicklisp dist](http://quickdocs.org/badge/cl-repl.svg)](http://quickdocs.org/cl-repl/)  
:jp: [For Japanese](README_jp.md)


<br>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/koji-kojiro/cl-repl/blob/master/image/cl-repl.gif">
</p>


# Overview

CL-REPL is a full-featured repl implementation designed to work with **[Roswell](https://github.com/roswell/roswell/)**, which is strongly inspired by **[SLIME](https://github.com/slime/slime)** and **[IPython](https://github.com/ipython/ipython)**.

## Features

- Emacs-like key bindings.<br>
- Tab-completion.
- Shell commands and magic commands.

Of course, the other general features are available! (e.g. debugger)

# Requirements
- [Roswell](https://github.com/roswell/roswell/)
- Steel Bank Common Lisp (bundled to Roswell)
- GNU Readline

If you are using Homebrew on MacOSX, you may need to link the library yourself as follows.

```
$ brew link --force readline
```

***[Note]:Since v.0.3.0, CCL and ACL are no longer supported. This means that CL-REPL always uses `sbcl-bin` even if you switch implementation using` ros use`.***  
***[Note]:Terminal should support ANSI escapes.***

# Installation

Via Roswell.<br>
`$ ros install koji-kojiro/cl-repl`

# Usage
`$ cl-repl`

or,

`$ ros repl`

```
$ cl-repl --help
A full-featured Common Lisp REPL implementation.

Usage:
  cl-repl [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --help        Show this screen and exit.
  --version     Show the version info and exit.
  --load <file> Load <file> when startup.

```

## debugger
When a condition is caught by REPL, the debugger starts up. You can select a restart type from three kinds of candidates. Please enter the number corresponding to the desired restart type and hit enter key. You can also execute any codes before restarting.

### Restart type
- [0]. Try evaluating again.
    The debugger will try to evaluating the code again.
- [1]. Return to top level.
    The debugger will be aborted without re-evaluating the code.
- [2]. Edit code.
    The text editor specified by the environment variable `EDITOR` will start.
    You can rewrite code with the editor.

## Shell commands (`![commands]...`)

If the line starts with "!", excute it as shell commnads.

```
CL-USER> !ls
a.txt
CL-USER> !ls -a
.
..
.hidden-file
a.txt
CL-USER>
```

## Magic commands

Some useful magic commands are available. All magic commands have name prefixed `%`.

### `%edit <file>`
Start editing the code with the text editor specified by the environment variable `EDITOR`. When `<file>` is not given, a temporary file will be created.

We tested the following text editors.

| Editor | Result |
|:----------:|:-----------:|
| GNU Emacs | OK! |
| GNU Emacs (emacs -nw) | OK! (recommended)|
| [lem](https://github.com/cxxxr/lem) | OK!  (recommended)|
| vim | OK! |
| Joe's own editor | OK! |
| GNU nano | OK! |
| Atom | NG... |
| Sublime Text3 | NG... |

We recommend to add the line `export EDITOR="emacs -nw -q"` to your `.bashrc`. We recommend [lem](https://github.com/cxxxr/lem) also, because it's very lightweight and highly optimized for Common Lisp.

***NOTE: The environment variable `EDITOR` is quite widely used (e.g. crontab -e, git commit...). So be careful with configuration.***

### `%load <systems>...`

Alias of `(ql:quickload systems... :silent t)`

### `%save [file]`

Save input history into `[file]`.

### `%time [expression]`

Measure execusion time of `[expression]`.

## Introspection (`?[symbol's name]`)

IPython style introspection is available.

# License

CL-REPL is distributed under [MIT license](LICENSE).

# Contributing
Don't hesitate to open issues or to send pull requests!  
The authors are unfamiliar to Common Lisp, as well as English...

# Author

[TANI Kojiro](https://github.com/koji-kojiro) (kojiro0531@gmail.com)

Commit message:

build an executable with asdf:make

README.md, after:

# CL-REPL - Common Lisp REPL for Roswell

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/koji-kojiro/cl-repl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/koji-kojiro/cl-repl)
[![MIT License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/koji-kojiro/cl-repl/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/koji-kojiro/cl-repl.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/koji-kojiro/cl-repl/releases)
[![Quicklisp dist](http://quickdocs.org/badge/cl-repl.svg)](http://quickdocs.org/cl-repl/)  
:jp: [For Japanese](README_jp.md)


<br>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/koji-kojiro/cl-repl/blob/master/image/cl-repl.gif">
</p>


# Overview

CL-REPL is a full-featured repl implementation designed to work with **[Roswell](https://github.com/roswell/roswell/)**, which is strongly inspired by **[SLIME](https://github.com/slime/slime)** and **[IPython](https://github.com/ipython/ipython)**.

## Features

- Emacs-like key bindings.<br>
- Tab-completion.
- Shell commands and magic commands.

Of course, the other general features are available! (e.g. debugger)

# Requirements
- [Roswell](https://github.com/roswell/roswell/)
- Steel Bank Common Lisp (bundled to Roswell)
- GNU Readline

If you are using Homebrew on MacOSX, you may need to link the library yourself as follows.

```
$ brew link --force readline
```

***[Note]:Since v.0.3.0, CCL and ACL are no longer supported. This means that CL-REPL always uses `sbcl-bin` even if you switch implementation using` ros use`.***  
***[Note]:Terminal should support ANSI escapes.***

# Installation

Via Roswell.<br>
`$ ros install koji-kojiro/cl-repl`

# Usage
`$ cl-repl`

or,

`$ ros repl`

```
$ cl-repl --help
A full-featured Common Lisp REPL implementation.

Usage:
  cl-repl [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --help        Show this screen and exit.
  --version     Show the version info and exit.
  --load <file> Load <file> when startup.

```

## debugger
When a condition is caught by REPL, the debugger starts up. You can select a restart type from three kinds of candidates. Please enter the number corresponding to the desired restart type and hit enter key. You can also execute any codes before restarting.

### Restart type
- [0]. Try evaluating again.
    The debugger will try to evaluating the code again.
- [1]. Return to top level.
    The debugger will be aborted without re-evaluating the code.
- [2]. Edit code.
    The text editor specified by the environment variable `EDITOR` will start.
    You can rewrite code with the editor.

## Shell commands (`![commands]...`)

If the line starts with "!", excute it as shell commnads.

```
CL-USER> !ls
a.txt
CL-USER> !ls -a
.
..
.hidden-file
a.txt
CL-USER>
```

## Magic commands

Some useful magic commands are available. All magic commands have name prefixed `%`.

### `%edit <file>`
Start editing the code with the text editor specified by the environment variable `EDITOR`. When `<file>` is not given, a temporary file will be created.

We tested the following text editors.

| Editor | Result |
|:----------:|:-----------:|
| GNU Emacs | OK! |
| GNU Emacs (emacs -nw) | OK! (recommended)|
| [lem](https://github.com/cxxxr/lem) | OK!  (recommended)|
| vim | OK! |
| Joe's own editor | OK! |
| GNU nano | OK! |
| Atom | NG... |
| Sublime Text3 | NG... |

We recommend to add the line `export EDITOR="emacs -nw -q"` to your `.bashrc`. We recommend [lem](https://github.com/cxxxr/lem) also, because it's very lightweight and highly optimized for Common Lisp.

***NOTE: The environment variable `EDITOR` is quite widely used (e.g. crontab -e, git commit...). So be careful with configuration.***

### `%load <systems>...`

Alias of `(ql:quickload systems... :silent t)`

### `%save [file]`

Save input history into `[file]`.

### `%time [expression]`

Measure execusion time of `[expression]`.

## Introspection (`?[symbol's name]`)

IPython style introspection is available.

# License

CL-REPL is distributed under [MIT license](LICENSE).

# Contributing
Don't hesitate to open issues or to send pull requests!  
The authors are unfamiliar to Common Lisp, as well as English...

To test locally, you can build an executable with `make build`.

# Author

[TANI Kojiro](https://github.com/koji-kojiro) (kojiro0531@gmail.com)
